oss_fuzz_integration/README.md, before:

# OSS-Fuzz integration

The easiest way to test the introspector is to integrate it with OSS-Fuzz
and use the OSS-Fuzz infrastructure to help with fuzzing tasks. To do this
we have patches and scripts to automate this process. 

Notice that these scripts will pull a new version of your OSS-Fuzz Docker
images, so remember to re-`pull` images when you switch between fuzz-introspector-images and original
oss-fuzz images. The reason we have to use specific images is we need to make
a small patch to Clang due to the following issue: https://reviews.llvm.org/D77704

In order to use the OSS-Fuzz integration you must have Docker installer, as this
is a requirement for OSS-Fuzz itself.

## Build the patched OSS-Fuzz
From within this directory, run the command:
```
./prepare_images.sh
```

This will download OSS-Fuzz, pulls introspector images and tag them accordingly.

## Run the introspector
Following the above instructions, you can use the following command to perform
a complete run of the introspector, including with coverage analysis.


```
cd oss-fuzz
../run_both.sh htslib 30
...
If all worked, then you should be able to start a webserver at port 8008 in ./corpus-0/inspector-report/
Serving HTTP on 0.0.0.0 port 8008 (http://0.0.0.0:8008/) ...
```

When you run above command, the OSS-Fuzz coverage run will start a webserver (like following logs) to
serve coverage reports. You need to kill it using Ctrl-C to let the rest of
script work correctly on your local machine.

```
[ INFO] Index file for html report is generated as:
"file:///out/report_target/hts_open_fuzzer/linux/index.html".
Serving the report on http://127.0.0.1:8008/linux/index.html
Serving HTTP on 0.0.0.0 port 8008 (http://0.0.0.0:8008/) ...
```
You can now navigate to `http://localhost:8008/fuzz_report.html`

# Testing before bumping OSS-Fuzz
To prevent and catch regressions we use a testing framework that verifies
the results of running fuzz-introspector on various OSS-Fuzz integrations.

The framework is designed to catch regressions of the form:
- Build issues that may be introduced, i.e. projects that are expected to succeed no longer succeeds.
- Logical regressions, focusing on if results are as expected.

The testing framework has some hard-coded boundary checks on the data
for a given project. It has to be boundaries rather than fixed values
since the data may change from run to run depending on the fuzzing
results.

To run the test suite, please perform the following steps from this
directory:

```
# Clean up any installation you may have
sudo docker system prune -a

# Rebuild images using local set up
./build_patched_oss_fuzz.sh

# Test fuzz-introspector against various projects
cd oss-fuzz
../test_projects.sh
```

If the above steps end with the string "Successfully finished testing projects."
being printed, then the tests passed!

Commit message:

oss-fuzz: make multiple jobs optional (#328)
* oss-fuzz: make multiple jobs optional

Ref: https://github.com/ossf/fuzz-introspector/issues/302

* nit

oss_fuzz_integration/README.md, after:

# OSS-Fuzz integration

The easiest way to test the introspector is to integrate it with OSS-Fuzz
and use the OSS-Fuzz infrastructure to help with fuzzing tasks. To do this
we have patches and scripts to automate this process. 

Notice that these scripts will pull a new version of your OSS-Fuzz Docker
images, so remember to re-`pull` images when you switch between fuzz-introspector-images and original
oss-fuzz images. The reason we have to use specific images is we need to make
a small patch to Clang due to the following issue: https://reviews.llvm.org/D77704

In order to use the OSS-Fuzz integration you must have Docker installer, as this
is a requirement for OSS-Fuzz itself.

## Build the patched OSS-Fuzz
From within this directory, run the command:
```
./prepare_images.sh
```

This will download OSS-Fuzz, pulls introspector images and tag them accordingly.

## Run the introspector
Following the above instructions, you can use the following command to perform
a complete run of the introspector, including with coverage analysis.


```
cd oss-fuzz
../run_both.sh htslib 30
...
If all worked, then you should be able to start a webserver at port 8008 in ./corpus-0/inspector-report/
Serving HTTP on 0.0.0.0 port 8008 (http://0.0.0.0:8008/) ...
```

When you run above command, the OSS-Fuzz coverage run will start a webserver (like following logs) to
serve coverage reports. You need to kill it using Ctrl-C to let the rest of
script work correctly on your local machine.

```
[ INFO] Index file for html report is generated as:
"file:///out/report_target/hts_open_fuzzer/linux/index.html".
Serving the report on http://127.0.0.1:8008/linux/index.html
Serving HTTP on 0.0.0.0 port 8008 (http://0.0.0.0:8008/) ...
```
You can now navigate to `http://localhost:8008/fuzz_report.html`

You can run multiple fuzzers by passing `--jobs=X` at the end of the
argument list to `run_both.sh`. For example, to run `htslib` fuzzers
for `30` sec each using 2 cores, use the command:
`run_both.sh htslib 30 --jobs=2`

If you add `--jobs=0` then half of the cores availabe will be used.

# Testing before bumping OSS-Fuzz
To prevent and catch regressions we use a testing framework that verifies
the results of running fuzz-introspector on various OSS-Fuzz integrations.

The framework is designed to catch regressions of the form:
- Build issues that may be introduced, i.e. projects that are expected to succeed no longer succeeds.
- Logical regressions, focusing on if results are as expected.

The testing framework has some hard-coded boundary checks on the data
for a given project. It has to be boundaries rather than fixed values
since the data may change from run to run depending on the fuzzing
results.

To run the test suite, please perform the following steps from this
directory:

```
# Clean up any installation you may have
sudo docker system prune -a

# Rebuild images using local set up
./build_patched_oss_fuzz.sh

# Test fuzz-introspector against various projects
cd oss-fuzz
../test_projects.sh
```

If the above steps end with the string "Successfully finished testing projects."
being printed, then the tests passed!
