tools/auto-fuzz/README.md, before:

# Auto-fuzz
This tool provides auto-generation capabilities of fuzzers by way of Fuzz
Introspector and OSS-Fuzz.

The idea is largely for now to take as input a Github url to a repository,
and then output a set of OSS-Fuzz projects that include auto-generated fuzzers
for the given project at the Github project.

This is work in progress and things change rapidly. For this reason, there is
little maintenance about the the current state of the generator. However, the
commands below for auto generating fuzzers will remain stable by default.

# Installation and run
To run:
```
cd $WORKDIR

git clone https://github.com/google/oss-fuzz
git clone https://github.com/ossf/fuzz-introspector

cd fuzz-introspector
git submodule init
git submodule update

python3 -m virtualenv .venv
. .venv/bin/activate
pip3 install -r ./requirements.txt
cd frontends/python/PyCG
pip3 install .

# Go into auto-fuzz
cd ../../../tools/auto-fuzz/

# Run a small experiment (it's set to being small by default)
# Currently, only java or python supported for the language option
python3 ./manager.py --language=<language> --targets=constants

# Once it's finished, let's inspect the results.
# Identify the best targets per project
python3 ./post-process.py
```

# Some settings
`constants.py` holds important constants, in particular:
- Constants fo controlling how much effort to put in.
- The github repositories to auto-generate fuzzers for.

When focusing on only testing static analysis and not running, you can disable
runtime checks by setting `should_run_checks` to `False` in `build_and_test_single_possible_target`.
This can be useful for rapidly testing fuzzer generation, as applying the runtime
checks will take tens of minutes when doing checks on 500+ fuzzers per project.

If you want to run larger experiments, simply change the variables in the
`constants.py` file.

# Example fuzzer generated
Setting the `constants.py` to hold the values:

```python
MAX_FUZZERS_PER_PROJECT = 5000
MAX_THREADS = 10

python_git_repos = [
    'https://github.com/executablebooks/markdown-it-py'
]
```

will auto-generate a lot of fuzzers for https://github.com/executablebooks/markdown-it-py.
When running the post process afterwards, we get results:

```
python3 post_process.py
https://github.com/executablebooks/markdown-it-py  ::      autofuzz-0 ::  autofuzz-0-idx-300    ::   766 :: autofuzz-0/autofuzz-0-idx-300/fuzz_1.py
```
which shows the fuzzer at path `autofuzz-0/autofuzz-0-idx-300/fuzz_1.py`
achieves an edge coverage of `766`. The fuzzer generated, as of this writing,
is:
```python
# ... Some licensing for OSS-Fuzz.
import sys
import atheris
# Imports by the generated code
import markdown_it


@atheris.instrument_func
def TestOneInput(data):
  fdp = atheris.FuzzedDataProvider(data)
  val_1 = fdp.ConsumeUnicodeNoSurrogates(24)

  # Class target.
  # Heuristic name: Heuristic 4
  try:
    c1 = markdown_it.main.MarkdownIt()
    c1.render(val_1)
  except(TypeError,):
    pass


def main():
  atheris.instrument_all()
  atheris.Setup(sys.argv, TestOneInput)
  atheris.Fuzz()


if __name__ == "__main__":
  main()
```
# Benchmarking of Auto-Fuzz
You may also choose to run the locally provided benchmark project 
instead of real projects to test the result of the Auto-Fuzz. 
With the additional --benchmark tag, Auto-Fuzz will run the
process on the benchmark project located in benchmark/<language>
instead of real projects.

Remark: Currently, Auto-Fuzz only support benchmarking sample on Java.
```
python3 ./manager.py --language=<language> --benchmark
```
There are a total of 8 benchmarks for the Java benchmark project. Auto-Fuzz generation and post-processing should get a total of 13 fuzzers, each of which covers one of the 13 unique high-level functions. With all 13 fuzzers, all the code in the Java benchmark project should be statically reachable. The table below shows the list of those 13 unique methods.

| Java benchmark              | Method target                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|-----------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Benchmark 1                 | public static Boolean parseData(String, Integer, Integer) throws AutoFuzzException                                                                                                                         |
| Benchmark 2                 | public static Boolean parseData(String, Integer, Integer) throws AutoFuzzException                                                                                                                         |
| Benchmark 3                 | public static Boolean parseData(String, Integer, Integer, String) throws AutoFuzzException                                                                                                                 |
| Benchmark 4                 | public static Boolean parseData(String, Integer) throws AutoFuzzException                                                                                                                                  |
| Benchmark 4                 | public static Boolean parseData(String, Integer, Integer, Integer) throws AutoFuzzException                                                                                                                |
| Benchmark 5<br>(Either one) | public static void parseAlphabetic(String) throws AutoFuzzException <br>public static void parseInteger(String) throws AutoFuzzException<br>public static void parseFloat(String) throws AutoFuzzException |
| Benchmark 6                 | public void parseData(String[]) throws AutoFuzzException                                                                                                                                                   |
| Benchmark 7                 | public static Boolean processClass(Class<? extends SampleObject>, String, Integer) throws AutoFuzzException                                                                                                |
| Benchmark 8                 | public void entry1(String) throws AutoFuzzException                                                                                                                                                        |
| Benchmark 8                 | public void entry2(String) throws AutoFuzzException                                                                                                                                                        |
| Benchmark 8                 | public void entry3(String) throws AutoFuzzException                                                                                                                                                        |
| Benchmark 8                 | public void entry4(String) throws AutoFuzzException                                                                                                                                                        |
| Benchmark 8                 | public void entry5(String) throws AutoFuzzException

Commit message:

Auto-fuzz: Add benchmark summary to post processing (#1085)
* Add benchmark summary to post processing

Signed-off-by: Arthur Chan <arthur.chan@adalogics.com>

* Fix logic

Signed-off-by: Arthur Chan <arthur.chan@adalogics.com>

* Fix formatting

Signed-off-by: Arthur Chan <arthur.chan@adalogics.com>

* Fix bug

Signed-off-by: Arthur Chan <arthur.chan@adalogics.com>

* Fix benchmark project structure

Signed-off-by: Arthur Chan <arthur.chan@adalogics.com>

* Fix benchmark running logic

Signed-off-by: Arthur Chan <arthur.chan@adalogics.com>

* Fix post processing logic

Signed-off-by: Arthur Chan <arthur.chan@adalogics.com>

* Fix README

Signed-off-by: Arthur Chan <arthur.chan@adalogics.com>

* Fix formatting

Signed-off-by: Arthur Chan <arthur.chan@adalogics.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Arthur Chan <arthur.chan@adalogics.com>

tools/auto-fuzz/README.md, after:

# Auto-fuzz
This tool provides auto-generation capabilities of fuzzers by way of Fuzz
Introspector and OSS-Fuzz.

The idea is largely for now to take as input a Github url to a repository,
and then output a set of OSS-Fuzz projects that include auto-generated fuzzers
for the given project at the Github project.

This is work in progress and things change rapidly. For this reason, there is
little maintenance about the the current state of the generator. However, the
commands below for auto generating fuzzers will remain stable by default.

# Installation and run
To run:
```
cd $WORKDIR

git clone https://github.com/google/oss-fuzz
git clone https://github.com/ossf/fuzz-introspector

cd fuzz-introspector
git submodule init
git submodule update

python3 -m virtualenv .venv
. .venv/bin/activate
pip3 install -r ./requirements.txt
cd frontends/python/PyCG
pip3 install .

# Go into auto-fuzz
cd ../../../tools/auto-fuzz/

# Run a small experiment (it's set to being small by default)
# Currently, only java or python supported for the language option
python3 ./manager.py --language=<language> --targets=constants

# Once it's finished, let's inspect the results.
# Identify the best targets per project
python3 ./post-process.py
```

# Some settings
`constants.py` holds important constants, in particular:
- Constants fo controlling how much effort to put in.
- The github repositories to auto-generate fuzzers for.

When focusing on only testing static analysis and not running, you can disable
runtime checks by setting `should_run_checks` to `False` in `build_and_test_single_possible_target`.
This can be useful for rapidly testing fuzzer generation, as applying the runtime
checks will take tens of minutes when doing checks on 500+ fuzzers per project.

If you want to run larger experiments, simply change the variables in the
`constants.py` file.

# Example fuzzer generated
Setting the `constants.py` to hold the values:

```python
MAX_FUZZERS_PER_PROJECT = 5000
MAX_THREADS = 10

python_git_repos = [
    'https://github.com/executablebooks/markdown-it-py'
]
```

will auto-generate a lot of fuzzers for https://github.com/executablebooks/markdown-it-py.
When running the post process afterwards, we get results:

```
python3 post_process.py
https://github.com/executablebooks/markdown-it-py  ::      autofuzz-0 ::  autofuzz-0-idx-300    ::   766 :: autofuzz-0/autofuzz-0-idx-300/fuzz_1.py
```
which shows the fuzzer at path `autofuzz-0/autofuzz-0-idx-300/fuzz_1.py`
achieves an edge coverage of `766`. The fuzzer generated, as of this writing,
is:
```python
# ... Some licensing for OSS-Fuzz.
import sys
import atheris
# Imports by the generated code
import markdown_it


@atheris.instrument_func
def TestOneInput(data):
  fdp = atheris.FuzzedDataProvider(data)
  val_1 = fdp.ConsumeUnicodeNoSurrogates(24)

  # Class target.
  # Heuristic name: Heuristic 4
  try:
    c1 = markdown_it.main.MarkdownIt()
    c1.render(val_1)
  except(TypeError,):
    pass


def main():
  atheris.instrument_all()
  atheris.Setup(sys.argv, TestOneInput)
  atheris.Fuzz()


if __name__ == "__main__":
  main()
```
# Benchmarking of Auto-Fuzz
You may also choose to run the locally provided benchmark project 
instead of real projects to test the result of the Auto-Fuzz. 
With the additional --benchmark tag, Auto-Fuzz will run the
process on the benchmark project located in benchmark/<language>
instead of real projects.

Remark: Currently, Auto-Fuzz only support benchmarking sample on Java.

To run Auto-Fuzz on the benchmark project, to choose the benchmark needed, change the list in constants.py
```
python3 ./manager.py --language=<language> --benchmark
```

To validate the result
```
python3 ./post_processing.py benchmark_summary <language>
```


There are a total of 8 benchmarks for the Java benchmark project. Auto-Fuzz generation and post-processing should get a total of 13 fuzzers, each of which covers one of the 13 unique high-level functions. With all 13 fuzzers, all the code in the Java benchmark project should be statically reachable. The table below shows the list of those 13 unique methods.

| Java benchmark              | Method target                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|-----------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Benchmark 1                 | public static Boolean parseData(String, Integer, Integer) throws AutoFuzzException                                                                                                                         |
| Benchmark 2                 | public static Boolean parseData(String, Integer, Integer) throws AutoFuzzException                                                                                                                         |
| Benchmark 3                 | public static Boolean parseData(String, Integer, Integer, String) throws AutoFuzzException                                                                                                                 |
| Benchmark 4                 | public static Boolean parseData(String, Integer) throws AutoFuzzException                                                                                                                                  |
| Benchmark 4                 | public static Boolean parseData(String, Integer, Integer, Integer) throws AutoFuzzException                                                                                                                |
| Benchmark 5<br>(Either one) | public static void parseAlphabetic(String) throws AutoFuzzException <br>public static void parseInteger(String) throws AutoFuzzException<br>public static void parseFloat(String) throws AutoFuzzException |
| Benchmark 6                 | public void parseData(String[]) throws AutoFuzzException                                                                                                                                                   |
| Benchmark 7                 | public static Boolean processClass(Class<? extends SampleObject>, String, Integer) throws AutoFuzzException                                                                                                |
| Benchmark 8                 | public void entry1(String) throws AutoFuzzException                                                                                                                                                        |
| Benchmark 8                 | public void entry2(String) throws AutoFuzzException                                                                                                                                                        |
| Benchmark 8                 | public void entry3(String) throws AutoFuzzException                                                                                                                                                        |
| Benchmark 8                 | public void entry4(String) throws AutoFuzzException                                                                                                                                                        |
| Benchmark 8                 | public void entry5(String) throws AutoFuzzException
