tools/web-fuzzing-introspection/README.md, before:

# Fuzz Introspetor macro website UI


This app is used to display fuzz introspector data for many projects in a single
unified manner. The main usage of this is https://introspector.oss-fuzz.com/

In order to launch this website first step is to create a DB and then it's
ready to launch. The DB creator script scans Fuzz Introspector reports as
generated by OSS-Fuzz. The webapp will then display this data and make it
available through various APIs.

## Launching a local version

The following commands can be used to launch a version of the webapp using
a subet of the projects on OSS-Fuzz.

```bash
# Get source
git clone https://github.com/ossf/fuzz-introspector
cd tools/web-fuzzing-introspection

# Create virtual environment
python3 -m virtualenv .venv
. .venv/bin/activate
pip3 install -r ./requirements.txt


# Create (small) DB
cd app/static/assets/db/
launch_minor_oss_fuzz.sh
cd ../../../

# Start the web app
python3 ./main.py
# ...
# Should show output along the lines of:
# Not setting google tag
# Loading db
# ...
#  * Serving Flask app 'main'
#  * Debug mode: off
# WARNING: This is a development server. Do not use it in a production deployment. Use a production WSGI server instead.
#  * Running on all addresses (0.0.0.0)
#  * Running on http://127.0.0.1:8080
#  * Running on http://10.0.2.15:8080
# Press CTRL+C to quit
```

Commit message:

web: update READMEs (#1464)
* web: update READMEs

Signed-off-by: David Korczynski <david@adalogics.com>

* Add timing details for the small launcher

Signed-off-by: David Korczynski <david@adalogics.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: David Korczynski <david@adalogics.com>

tools/web-fuzzing-introspection/README.md, after:

# Fuzz Introspetor macro website UI


This app is used to display fuzz introspector data for many projects in a single
unified manner. The main usage of this is https://introspector.oss-fuzz.com/

In order to launch this website first step is to create a DB and then it's
ready to launch. The DB creator script scans Fuzz Introspector reports as
generated by OSS-Fuzz. The webapp will then display this data and make it
available through various APIs.

## Launching a local version

To launch the web app locally you need to:

1. Create a virtual environment and install dependencies.
2. Create a local DB. This requires one command and takes a few minutes to
   create a small DB with 10-20 OSS-Fuzz projects.
3. Launch the web app.

The following commands can be used to launch a version of the webapp using
a subet of the projects on OSS-Fuzz.

```bash
# Get source
git clone https://github.com/ossf/fuzz-introspector
cd tools/web-fuzzing-introspection

# Create virtual environment
python3 -m virtualenv .venv
. .venv/bin/activate
python3 -m pip install -r ./requirements.txt


# Create (small) DB
cd app/static/assets/db/
launch_minor_oss_fuzz.sh
cd ../../../

# Start the web app
python3 ./main.py
# ...
# Should show output along the lines of:
# Not setting google tag
# Loading db
# ...
#  * Serving Flask app 'main'
#  * Debug mode: off
# WARNING: This is a development server. Do not use it in a production deployment. Use a production WSGI server instead.
#  * Running on all addresses (0.0.0.0)
#  * Running on http://127.0.0.1:8080
#  * Running on http://10.0.2.15:8080
# Press CTRL+C to quit
```
